Programming Labs for Physics
These labs were designed by Prof. Chris Orban for Physics 1250 at OSU Marion and they should be generally useful at the high school and college level. No calculus knowledge or prior programming experience is required.

The nice part about these programming labs is that there is no software to install. The compiling and executing and visualization is all done within your web browser! This is accomplished using a programming framework called p5js.org which is very similar to C/C++.

Prof. Orban is eager to collaborate with high school physics teachers! If you are a high school physics teacher please send an e-mail to orban@physics.osu.edu if you are interested in trying this out or getting some training on how to use these exercises in your classroom.
Introduction:
Before doing anything please answer these survey questions!
Fun Video on the Physics of Video Games and the motivation of the STEMcoding project!!

Introduction to the Programming Framework (Tutorial Video)

Classical mechanics exercises:
Move the blob

Intro Lab 1. Move-the-blob exercise (Tutorial Video)

Accelerate the blob

Pre-quiz for Accelerate-the-blob

Intro Lab 2. Accelerate-the-blob (Tutorial Video)

Post-quiz for Accelerate-the-blob

Just for fun: Force the Blob (Tutorial Video)

Apollo Moon Landing

Apollo Moon Landing (Tutorial Video)

Bird Launcher

Bird Launcher (Tutorial Video)
1. Planetoids game!
Introduction to Planetoids (Coordinate System)

Introduction to Planetoids (Angle System)

Pre-quiz for Planetoids

Lab 1. Planetoids game (Tutorial Video)

Post-quiz for Planetoids
2. Lunar descent game!
Pre-quiz for Lunar Descent

Lab 2. Lunar Descent game (Tutorial Video)

Post-quiz for Lunar Descent

3. Bellicose birds game!
Pre-quiz for Bellicose birds

Lab 3. Bellicose Birds game (Tutorial Video)

Post-quiz for Bellicose birds

4. Planetoids with momentum!
Pre-quiz for Planetoids with momentum

Lab 4. Planetoids with momentum! (Tutorial Video)

Post-quiz for Planetoids with momentum

5. Planetoids with torque!
Pre-quiz for planetoids with torque

Lab 5. Planetoids with torque! (Video Tutorial)

Post-quiz for planetoids with torque

6. Planetoids with a spring!
Pre-quiz for planetoids with a spring

Lab 6. Planetoids with a spring! (Video Tutorial)

Post-quiz for planetoids with a spring

(Extra credit) 7. Bellicose birds with energy!
Lab 7. Bellicose birds with energy!

8. Pong!

Lab 8. The Pong game! (Video Tutorial)

9. Bonk.io clone

Lab 9. Bonk.io clone! (Video Tutorial)

Astronomy!
Night Sky Simulator! (Video Tutorial)

Slingshot with gravity (Video Tutorial)

Orbital Motion: Kepler's 2nd law

Orbital Motion: Eccentricity

Escape velocity and Newtonian Black Holes (Video Tutorial)

Exoplanets! (Video Tutorial)

Hidden Figures: Project Mercury activities
Project Mercury (Part 1. Circular Orbit)

Project Mercury (Part 2. reentry)

Electromagnetism Exercises
Discussion of the unit system (protons have q = +1, m = 1)

1. Particle Accelerator
Pre-quiz for particle accelerator

Lab 1. Particle Accelerator! (Video Tutorial for Part 1, Part 2 still in progress)

Post-quiz for particle accelerator

2. Particle Accelerator with potential
Lab 2. Particle Accelerator (with potential!)

3. Point charge repulsion (Video Tutorial)

Pre-quiz for point charge repulsion

Lab 3. Repulsion between two point charges

Post-quiz for point charge repulsion

4. RC circuit
Lab 4. RC circuits

5. Magnetic forces
Pre-quiz for magnetic forces

Lab 5. Magnetic force (a.k.a. Mass Spectrometer) (Video Tutorial)

Post-quiz for magnetic forces

6. Wave interference (Tutorial Video)

Lab 6. Wave Interference!

Just for fun: thin film interference
Thin film visualization (Here is the code)